---
layout: post
title: Bandit 28
date: 2023-11-25 10:14 -0600
categories: OvertheWire Bandit
tags: note
permalink: "/:categories/:title"
---


#### Git
- A fast, scalable, distributed revision control system with an unusually rich command set that provides both high-level operations and full access to internals.

`git`: the stupid content tracker (literally written as is in the manual)

##### Git Tutorial
- A tutorial introduction to GIT
- Explains how to import a new project into Git, make changes to it, and share changes with other developers.

```bash
git config --global user.name "Your name comes here"
git config --global user.email "you@yourdomain.example.com"
```

**Importing a New Project**

```bash
cd /tmp/bacon
git init
```
- Initialized empty Git repository in .git/


```bash
git add .
```
- `git add` tells Git to take a snapshot of the contents of all files under the current directory
- The snapshot is now stored in a temporary staging area which Git calls the "index".

```bash
git commit -m "commit message"
```
-  `git commit`: permanently store the contents of the index in the repository. 

**Git Tracks Content Not Files**
- Git's `add` command is used both for new and newly modified files, and in both cases, it takes a snapshot of the given files and stages that content in the index, ready for inclusion in the next commit.

**Viewing Project History**
```bash
git log
```
- At any point, we can view the history of the changes in repo using `git log`


**Git Checkout**
```bash
git-checkout
```
- Switches branches or restore working tree files
- Updates files in the working tree to match the version in the inbox or specified tree. 

**Ancestral Hashes**
- In Git, you can use the concept of "ancestral hash" to refer to specific commits relative to another commit, mostly the `HEAD` (which refers to the current commit in your working directory).
- This is particularly useful when you want to check out a commit that's a certain number of commits behind the `HEAD` or another commit

```bash
git checkout HEAD-3
```
- Checking out a commit that is 3 commits behind the current `HEAD`

```bash
git checkout <commit hash>
```

---

Clone the Repo

```bash
mkdir /tmp/bacon28
```

```bash
cd /tmp/bacon28
```

```bash
git clone <ssh link>
```



```bash
cd repo
```

```bash
cat README.md
```

```bash
# Bandit Notes
Some notes for level29 of bandit.

## credentials

- username: bandit29
- password: xxxxxxxxxx
```
- Looks like password is censored.


```bash
git log
```
- `git-log`: Shows the commit logs.
	- Lists commits that are reachable by following the parent links from the given commit(s), but exclude commits that are reachable from the one(s) given with a `^` in front of them. 
	- Output is given in reverse chronological order by default.


```bash
commit 14f754b3ba6531a2b89df6ccae6446e8969a41f3 (HEAD -> master, origin/master, origin/HEAD)
Author: Morla Porla <morla@overthewire.org>
Date:   Thu Oct 5 06:19:41 2023 +0000

    fix info leak

commit f08b9cc63fa1a4602fb065257633c2dae6e5651b
Author: Morla Porla <morla@overthewire.org>
Date:   Thu Oct 5 06:19:41 2023 +0000

    add missing data

commit a645bcc508c63f081234911d2f631f87cf469258
Author: Ben Dover <noone@overthewire.org>
Date:   Thu Oct 5 06:19:41 2023 +0000

    initial commit of README.md
```
- It shows that the last commit fixed "info leak" which implies that a commit prior still has the leak.

```bash
git checkout 'f08b9cc63fa1a4602fb065257633c2dae6e5651b'
```

```bash
cat README.md
```
- Check the credentials again to see the difference