---
layout: post
title: Bandit 30
date: 2023-11-26 09:03 -0600
categories: OvertheWire Bandit
tags: note
permalink: "/:categories/:title"
---

#### Side Note
##### Git Objects
Git objects are core to how Git functions as a distributed version control system. They form the building blocks of a Git repository, storing the history of a project and its versions. 
Understanding these objects is key to understanding Git's underlying mechanisms. 

**Blob (Binary Large Object)**
- `Blob` represents the contents of a file in the repository. Blobs do not store file names or directory structure.
- When a file is added to a Git repository, Git creates a blob objects for it
- `Blob` contains only the file data and a header indicating the size of the file

**Tree**
- Represents a directory. It organizes blobs and other trees (subdirectories)
- `Tree` contains pointers to blob and tree objects, along with mode (type and permissions), name, and `SHA-1` identifier. It effectively maps the repository's directory structure at a specific moment.

**Commit**
- `Commit` captures the state of a repository at a point in time
- `Commit` points to `tree` (representing the top level of the project directory), contains metadata like author, committer, commit message, and timestamp, and has pointers to parent commit(s)-enabling the tracking of history
- Each `commit` represents a specific history node in Git. It's a snapshot of your entire repository at a given time.

**Tag**
- Marks specific points in a repository's history as important, typically used for version releases.
- Annotated tags are stored as objects that contain the tagger's name, email, tagging message, and optionally, a signature

Lightweight Tags
- Essentially "bookmarks" to a commit; they are a simple pointer to a specific commit
- A reference to a commit and annotated (a full object with metadata)

```bash
git tag <tag name>
```

Annotated Tags
- More complex, stored as full objects in the Git database.
- Includes the tagger's name, email, date, a tagging message, and can optionally be signed for verification
- Recommended for public releases because they include metadata and support GPG signing for security.

```bash
git tad -a < tagname> -m "<message>"
```


**SHA-1 Hashes**
- Each object in Git is identified by a `SHA-1` hash, a 40-character string that uniquely identifies the contents of the object. 
- The hash acts as the object's address and is key to Git's  integrity and the linkage between objects

---

#### Examine Repo
```bash
mkdir /tmp/bacon30
cd /tmp/bacon30
git clone <ssh link>
```

```bash
cd repo
cat README.md
```

```bash
just an epmty file... muahaha
```

#### Examine Commit History
```bash
commit d39631d73f786269b895ae9a7b14760cbf40a99f (HEAD -> master, origin/master, origin/HEAD)
Author: Ben Dover <noone@overthewire.org>
Date:   Thu Oct 5 06:19:45 2023 +0000

    initial commit of README.md
```

#### Examine Remote Branches
```bash
git branch -a
```

```bash
* master
  remotes/origin/HEAD -> origin/master
  remotes/origin/master
```

- We are met with one commit and one repository. 

#### Examine Objects

```bash
git-show
```
- `git-show` shows one or more objects (`blobs`, `trees`,  `tags`, and `commits`)

```bash
       For commits it shows the log message and textual diff. It also presents the merge commit in a
       special format as produced by git diff-tree --cc.

       For tags, it shows the tag message and the referenced objects.

       For trees, it shows the names (equivalent to git ls-tree with --name-only).

       For plain blobs, it shows the plain contents.

       The command takes options applicable to the git diff-tree command to control how the changes
       the commit introduces are shown.
```

```bash
git show --notes [=<ref>]
```
- Show the notes that annotate the commit, when showing the commit log message. This is the default for `git log`, `git show` `
- With an optional `<ref>` argument, use the ref to find the notes to display. The ref can specify the full `refname` when it beings with `/ref/notes/;` 


```bash
git show-ref
```

```bash
d39631d73f786269b895ae9a7b14760cbf40a99f refs/heads/master
d39631d73f786269b895ae9a7b14760cbf40a99f refs/remotes/origin/HEAD
d39631d73f786269b895ae9a7b14760cbf40a99f refs/remotes/origin/master
831aac2e2341f009e40e46392a4f5dd318483019 refs/tags/secret
```


```bash
git show-ref secret
```

```bash
831aac2e2341f009e40e46392a4f5dd318483019 refs/tags/secret refs/tags/secret
```