---
layout: post
title: Bandit 32
date: 2023-11-26 11:52 -0600
categories: OvertheWire Bandit
tags: note
permalink: "/:categories/:title"
---

We enter an unusual shell environment and seems like every command is converted to upper-case.

We need to find a way to execute commands in their lowercase form despite the restriction. 

---
#### Side Note

##### Environment Variables
- Built-in environment variables are predefined variables that provide information about the user environment, system configuration, and shell behavior.
- These variables are an integral part of Unix and Unix-like operating system, and they play a crucial role in scripting, program execution, and system management.

`HOME`: The current user's home directory.
`PATH`:  A colon-separated list of directories where the shell looks for executable files.
`PWD`: The current working directory. It's updated to reflect the directory that you're currently in.
`USER`: The current logged-in user's name
`SHELl`: The path to the current user's shell, like `/bin/bash` or `bin/sh`
`LANG`
`TERM`: The type of terminal used for the current session, which affects how output is displayed on the screen
`HOSTNAME`: The name of the machine on which the system is running.
`UID` + `GID`: The user ID and group ID of the current user
`OLDPWD`: The previous working directory. This updates each time you change the directories with `cd`

`0`: The `$0` contains the name of the script. It often contains the path to the shell itself.

---
```bash
>> $0
```
- Lead me to a normal shell script


```bash
whoami
```

```bash
bandit33
```
- Apparently I am `bandit33`. Sweet. I won't have any problem reading the password

```bash
cd /etc/bandit_pass
cat bandit33
```

