---
layout: post
title: Bandit 20
date: 2023-11-24 09:03 -0600
---


| Command            | Description                               |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| `ssh`              | OpenSSH SSH Client (remote login program) |
| `nc`               | TCP/IP swiss army knife                   |
| `cat`              | Concatenate files & print on the stdout   |
| `bash`             | GNU Bourne-Again Shell                    |
| `Screen`           | Screen manager with terminal emulation    |
| `tmux`             | Terminal Multiplexer                      |
| `Unix job contorl` | Unix job control command list             |

**Set Up a Listening Server**
- In a separate session, set up a server that listens on a specific port (i.e `1025`). 
- You can do this using tools like `nc`.

```bash
nc -lvp 1025
```

**Run the Setuid binary**
- Run the setuid binary in the main session and pass the port number you are listening on an assignment. The setuid binary will make a connection to your listening server on that port.

**Send the Password**
- Once the setuid binary connects to your listening server, input the password from the previous level. 
- The binary is expected to read a line of text from the connection and check it against the known password.

**Receive Response**
- After sending the password, switch back to your listening sever session. The binary, upon successfully validating the password, should send back some response. This response might be the key to progress to the next level. 

#### Network Sockets and Buffer

Network Sockets
- network sockets are endpoints for sending and receiving data across a network. When a program connects to a socket, it can read form and write to that sock as if it were reading/writing to a file or a buffer

Buffer
- Data sent to a socket is stored in a buffer, a temporary storage area, until it's ready by the receiving program. 

Netcat's Role
- `netcat (nc)` is a versatile networking utility. When used to set up a listener `nc -lvp [PORT]`, it performs following actions.

1. Listening for Incoming Connections: `netcat` binds to the specified port and listens for incoming connections
2. Accepting Connections: When the `setuid` binary connects to this port, `netcat` accepts the connection, establishing a two-way communication channel.
3. Reading from the Socket: Once connected, `netcat` can read any data sent by the connected program (in this case, the setuid binary). This data is read form the buffer associated with the socket.
4. Displaying Data: `netcat` displays the incoming data to its standard output, which is why you can see the text sent by the setuid binary.
