---
layout: post
title: Bandit 27
date: 2023-11-25 10:14 -0600
categories: OvertheWire Bandit
tags: note
permalink: "/:categories/:title"
---

#### Git
- A fast, scalable, distributed revision control system with an unusually rich command set that provides both high-level operations and full access to internals.

`git`: the stupid content tracker (literally written as is in the manual)

##### Git Tutorial
- A tutorial introduction to Git
- Explains how to import a new project into Git, make changes to it, and share changes with other developers.

```bash
git config --global user.name "Your name comes here"
git config --global user.email "you@yourdomain.example.com"
```

**Importing a New Project**

```bash
cd /tmp/bacon
git init
```

```bash
Initialized empty Git repository in .git/
```

```bash
git add .
```
- `git add` tells Git to take a snapshot of the contents of all files under the current directory
- The snapshot is now stored in a temporary staging area which Git calls the "index".

```bash
git commit -m "commit message"
```
-  `git commit`: permanently store the contents of the index in the repository. 

**Git Tracks Content Not Files**
- Git's `add` command is used both for new and newly modified files, and in both cases, it takes a snapshot of the given files and stages that content in the index, ready for inclusion in the next commit.

**Viewing Project History**
```bash
git log
```
- At any point, we can view the history of the changes in repo using `git log`


**Git Checkout**
```bash
git-checkout
```
- Switches branches or restore working tree files
- Updates files in the working tree to match the version in the inbox or specified tree. 

**Ancestral Hashes**
- In Git, you can use the concept of "ancestral hash" to refer to specific commits relative to another commit, mostly the `HEAD` (which refers to the current commit in your working directory).
- This is particularly useful when you want to check out a commit that's a certain number of commits behind the `HEAD` or another commit

```bash
git checkout HEAD-3
```
- Checking out a commit that is 3 commits behind the current `HEAD`

```bash
git checkout <commit hash>
```

---


- I had trouble cloning the repo because I was unaware that I didn't have the permission to `write` in `home` directory

```bash
mkdir /tmp/bacon
```
- Created a new directory to store the repo in `/tmp` 


```
git clone ssh://[username]@[host]:[port]/[path-to-repository]
```
- When cloning a repository using Git through SSH and need to specify a custom port number, the syntax changes slightly from the default command. 


If you are using the SCP-like syntax, it looks like this:
```bash
git clone [username]@[host]:[port]/[path-to-repository]
```
- The SCP-like syntax doesn't support the `-p` flag directory. 
- You need to use an SSH configuration file to se the port.  `~/.ssh/config`

SCP-like syntax is out of scope in this challenge, for we cannot access the configuration file.

```bash
cd repo
```

```bash
cat README.md
```

